In recent years, it's been hard to escape large language
models as they've been all over the global news. One of the
most famous models in this realm is OpenAI's chat
GPT, which has dominated the news with its
ability to write poetry, essays, social media
content, code, and so much more.
GPT and similar models have been employed to translate languages
in real time during international events and also
to aid in disaster relief efforts by quickly translating vital
information into multiple languages. Large
language models have also found their way into the world of health care,
aiding in medical research and diagnosis. So whether you're an
experienced developer or not, it's been hard to not have heard
of LLMs. But what exactly are they, and why are
they cause causing such a stir? To put it very simply, imagine you
give it you give a computer access to the entire Internet and tell
it to learn everything it reads as well as using this as a
method to learn the structure and the grammar of the language. This isn't
exactly how an l learn works, but we'll come onto that later. But
the outcome is the same. You're left with a machine that has
great knowledge. And not only that, but the machine
can actually talk to you about what it knows. You can ask it
questions or give it to a language based test, and the machine
will understand your question and be able to give you an appropriate
response. Large language models represent a transformative
breakthrough in the field of artificial intelligence and natural
language processing. These models are a testament to the
remarkable progress made in machine learning, enabling
computers to understand and generate human language at an
unprecedented scale and complexity. At the heart of these large
language models lies deep learning, a subset of machine learning that
mimics the human brain's neural networks. However, what
really led to the massive innovations we see today is a type of model architecture
known as transformer. This is another way a machine can
learn the complexities of a language, and transformers are the
reason. The models we see today have such
amazing results. There are 3 main features to a large
language model which makes them unique. The first aspect is that
you might have guessed by the name is that large language models are, well,
you know, large compared to other models we've seen before. These
models are massive in size. And their size
is one of the aspects that allows for the amazing results we've seen from large
language models. The second aspect of LLMs is that their
general purpose, and the third is that they're able to be pretrained
and fine tuned.